---
layout: post
bgimage: 8142015.png
title: How did we get here?
---

Before we talk go into publishing to the blog itself I wanted to talk about how this blog came to be.

 
Sort of like the origin tale of a great super-hero saga (except its really just how stylesheets and ruby). I am going to breakdown the how in two sections.
As for the source of this blog - this is public on my [Github] (https://github.com/munadm)

##Story so far


So the idea behind making a blog isn't of course a grand one. Everyone and their uncle has one and with so many frameworks available it is perhaps one of the easier projects to shoot through a weekend
However what I saw in most of the frameworks is that they were very...fake-pretty. I mean sure there are some amazing themes out there but in all honesty most are not designed to be future-proof against the growing inch of mobile screens.


Thus the idea behind my project was to figure out a way to use an existing renderer but build a theme that looks the part of a decent web application.
I went theme first because at the end of the day I wanted a small enough asset library to not hamper load time. By pure chance I read about an article on [Material Design Lite] (http://www.getmdl.io/).
It had a lot of things going for it. It was a tiny CDN hosted library with enough assets to get started. It was flexible with custom rendering that wont step over some hierarchical style inheritance and best of all it had the reliance and familiarity of a android app that would look amazing on a web application.
So it was settled, I grabbed a template blog they were demoing out and got started in ripping out the guts to make it conform to how I want it to look.


The second great run of luck was with jekyll. Deemed for "Blogging like a hacker" its a small yet elegant framework that is built around YAML mastheads and liquid templating.
It was initially clunky to get started with but the excellent [jekyll-now] (https://github.com/barryclark/jekyll-now) offers a great quickstart on how to get started with the baseplate version in minutes. From there came the hard part of merging the existing framework to my mdl theme. But with great tinkering yields great results and thus I was able to get it going relatively quickly


##To be continued...


My ideas is to incorporate as many mdl features as I can muster. I am hoping to get the disqus module running for version 2 and in the future incorporate some of those sweet animation components in the mdl library. 
The end goal is realistically hand it over to a more avid blogger who can really put this through the paces and see what kinda improvements I can incorporate to future releases